Genetics subsection of network/pathway models (#8)
greenelab/biopriors-review: content/04.network-models.md

### Applications in genetics

Approaches to incorporating gene set or network structure into genetic studies have a long history (see, e.g. [@doi:10.1093/biostatistics/kxl007; @doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btn081]).
Recent applications of these methods include expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) mapping studies, which aim to identify associations between genetic variants and gene expression.
netReg [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btx677] implements the graph-regularized dual LASSO algorithm for eQTL mapping described in [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btu293] in a publicly available R package, based on an efficient C++ backend.

> This model allows for regression coefficients to be smoothed simultaneously based on networks describing associations between genes (target variables in the eQTL regression model) and between variants (predictors in the eQTL regression model).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model smooths regression coefficients simultaneously based on networks describing associations between genes (target variables in the eQTL regression model) and between variants (predictors in the eQTL regression model).
```

eQTL information can also be used in conjunction with genetic variant information to predict phenotypes, in an approach known as Mendelian randomization (MR).
In [@doi:10.1111/biom.13072], a smoothing term derived from a gene regulatory network is used as a component in an MR model.

> When applied to a human liver cohort data set, the model with the network smoothing term was shown to more robustly identify genes that influence enzyme activity than an MR model that does not consider network interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model with the network smoothing term, applied to a human liver data set, more robustly identifies genes that influence enzyme activity than an MR model that does not consider network interactions.
```

Reviewer: I think this reduces the word count and emphasizes the method over the dataset.

> As genetic datasets become larger, efficient methods for gene and genetic variant selection will become even more important, and it is likely that researchers will continue to develop models that leverage gene set and network databases for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As genetic datasets become larger, efficient methods for gene and genetic variant selection will become even more important, and it is likely that researchers will continue to develop models that leverage gene set and network databases.
```
